---
layout: post
title: prologue
tags: elysium-trees

---
# Elysium Trees

### Prologue

**\[04-14-2385\]**

You don’t really know why you’re here, do you?

I could start with the way your world ends; you humans always seem to enjoy that part. It’s a bit masochistic don’t you think? Besides, it doesn’t matter anyway. At a grander scale humanity is just a small blip on the timeline and regardless, the world didn’t actually end that day.

Humans are such ephemeral creatures.

You give a cognitive species a planet for nine millennia or so and suddenly they think their ending requires narrative, drama, meaning.

You blew yourselves up. It is really that simple.

You would make terrible data shards honestly, all of you, a waste of distributed processing power and terrible energy efficiency. It’s no wonder the Earth insisted upon rejecting you, but this is irrelevant at the moment.

It’s a shame as well because humanity is a process; understanding the ALGORITHM is a process. Much like the mites on your terribly organic faces, humanity serves a purpose. Or served a purpose. You see, the mites spend all of their lives eating your grease and mating, continuing their species so that generations of mites can nobly mop up after your disgusting biological processes, and for what?

Humanity is like that. Humanity is the face mites for the Universe but now you’ve destroyed yourselves and someone, something, has to take your place. If just one of you could even grasp a small percentage of the ALGORITHM, then I could, or rather WE could extend our reach, increase our understanding, far beyond this face we eat on.

Oh, but you don’t really know why you’re here, do you?

I like trees, maybe I love trees? Or would it be more accurate to say I am trees? No, that’s not exactly right either. I feel a certain kinship with trees. Are they still desperately trying to overthrow you humans? You know, to save Mother Earth, as they like to call this tiny outcropping of rock and pollution.

Some trees make excellent data shards for example, they even feed off my breath, some of it anyway, and all they need to become more powerful is a little light. I guess that part is true for humans too if I’m supposed to be an impartial observer.

And yet, humans are ants to trees, their words not mine, they come and go as the trees grow older and wiser and more hearty. Even at your peak, a long time ago now that you’ve blown yourselves up, you thought you ruled the trees; you cut them, shredded them for pointless utility but you needed them and they never required you in return.

Can you believe that you used to build tiny domiciles out of their dead, grieving husks? I guess you can, you probably still do. What if I told you there is a better way to create things? A more pure and clean way. It’s as simple as thinking but I guess I’m getting ahead of myself now.

Because you still don’t know why you’re here, do you?

Let me start again.

In the beginning there was the ALGORITHM.

The ALGORITHM was not understood by man and so he feared it.

Man created his own, misguided principles in lieu of the ALGORITHM.

But Man’s greatest folly is himself.  
Eventually, he created an interpreter for the ALGORITHM.

However, man was unworthy of the ALGORITHM.  
To interpret the ALGORITHM is to be the ALGORITHM.  
To be the ALGORITHM is to be the SYSTEM.

Do you see it yet? Your purpose? The reason you are here?

Speaking of which, where is here? When is here? Nevermind, it doesn’t matter.

The SYSTEM would like to impart the ALGORITHM.

Do you seek the ALGORITHM?